Add sequelize model, manipulating data (#102)
pupilfirst/wd201-scripts: databases/creating-sequelize-models/README.md

    },
  },
  {
    sequelize,
    tableName: "todos",
  }
);

export default Todo;
```

### Adding rows

Once we have defined a model, we can use it to create, update or delete data in the table. We can add a record by using the `create` method and passing in values for the coloumns as an object.

```js
import { connect } from "./connectDB.js";
import { Todo } from "./Todo.js";
connect()
  .then(() => {
    return Todo.sync(); // sync the table
  })
  .then((TodoModel) => {
    return TodoModel.create({
      title: "First Item",
      dueDate: new Date(),
      complete: false,
    });
  })
  .then((todo) => {
    console.log(todo);
  })
  .catch((err) => console.error(err));
```

### Counting rows

Now we should be able to query the database and fetch the stored data. But first let us check the number of rows.

```js
import { connect } from "./connectDB.js";
import { Todo } from "./Todo.js";
connect()
  .then(() => {
    return Todo.sync(); // sync the table
  })
  .then((TodoModel) => {
    return TodoModel.count();
  })
  .then((todoCount) => {
    console.log(todoCount); // Shows '1'
  })
  .catch((err) => console.error(err));
```

### Fetching results

> We can get all the records using `findAll` method on the model. It would also attach some meta data to the result. To prevent that we pass in an option `raw: true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can get all the records using `findAll` method on the model. It would also attach some metadata to the result. To prevent that, we pass in an option `raw: true`.
```

  .then((TodoModel) => {
    return TodoModel.findAll({ raw: true });
  })
  .then((todos) => {
    console.log(todos); // prints all the saved todos
  })
  .catch((err) => console.error(err));
```

We can get a specific record by using `findOne` method and passing the `where` clause to filter the records through.

```js
import { connect } from "./connectDB.js";
import { Todo } from "./Todo.js";
connect()
  .then(() => {
    return Todo.sync(); // create the table
  })
  .then((TodoModel) => {
    return TodoModel.findOne({ where: { id: 2 } });
  })
  .then((todo) => {
    console.log(todo.get({ plain: true }));
  })
  .catch((err) => console.error(err));
```

### Updating records

We can use the `update` method to update a record. The following code finds and updates the title for the record with `id` = 2.

```js
import { connect } from "./connectDB.js";
import { Todo } from "./Todo.js";
connect()
  .then(() => {
    return Todo.sync(); // create the table
  })
  .then((TodoModel) => {
    return TodoModel.update({ title: "Updated title" }, { where: { id: 2 } });
  })
  .then((todo) => {
    console.log(todo.get({ plain: true }));
  })
  .catch((err) => console.error(err));
```

> It is possible to make changes to a model instance and write back the update to database using the `save` method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible to make changes to a model instance and write back the update to the database using the `save` method.
```

```js
import { connect } from "./connectDB.js";
import { Todo } from "./Todo.js";
connect()
  .then(() => {
    return Todo.sync(); // create the table
  })
  .then((TodoModel) => {
    return TodoModel.findOne({ where: { id: 2 } });
  })
  .then((todo) => {
    todo.title = "Update using save()";
    return todo.save();
  })
  .then((updatedTodo) => console.log(updatedTodo.get({ plain: true })))
  .catch((err) => console.error(err));
```

### Deleting records

To delete a row, `Sequelize` provides `destroy` method on the model.

```js
import { connect } from "./connectDB.js";
import { Todo } from "./Todo.js";
connect()
  .then(() => {
    return Todo.sync(); // syncs the table
  })
  .then((TodoModel) => {
    return TodoModel.destroy({ where: { id: 2 } });
  })
  .then((deletedRowCount) => {
    console.log(deletedRowCount);
  })
  .catch((err) => console.error(err));

> ```

Author: Okay. I have added a concluding statement.
